Thank you very much, everyone. Thank you. Welcome, everyone. Thank you, thank you.
Again, we continue the teaching, short teaching, and again understanding our beautiful motivation
of the yoga and appreciation,
and bodhicitta, a vastness, motivation of the bodhicitta, and then we will read the realization of
the Vedayan teaching, as of today's meditation.
So, in some teachings mentioned, raise up the motivation of the bodhicitta, and raise up the
motivation of the Vedayan teachings.
Those are the teachings also. We activate those two motivations combined with yoga and appreciation
, and again we reflect on the teachings.
And the teaching, again, we continue going through the teachings of the heart-advised for the 14
ones
by Jyabjai the New Room. And today I'm going to talk briefly again about retreat. As I said
yesterday,
in the sense we are doing retreat this time, we are all doing retreat. Everyone who is connected
and who are on this,
we are listening or following this, we are all really doing some retreat. And retreat, as I said,
in Buddhism is so popular. Yes, there is really one highway where all the practitioners did, and
they are doing the harm.
And so, now we are doing that. And the retreat, when we do, there is two retreats. One is called V
arekanalay,
a strict retreat, and the other is, to be determined knowledge, said, "Go, there are those other
very soft retreats."
So, yesterday I mentioned of those strict retreats, who do this schedule, and that is known as a
period.
Like the period of the whole, they divided in four period or five periods. And those are, each of
those has,
like maybe two or three hours, or three hours, three hours, three hours. So, maybe 12 hours,
spending that.
Or maybe it has two hours. That depends, of course, you can set up your own schedules.
But, trying to, kind of, recognize time to do the practices. So, that means, also is divided as a
two,
known as the practice session, and the post-practice sessions, two practices.
So, meditate on the practice session, that's spending about eight hours, let's say, kind of like,
very kind of like, cross-level, eight hours. And then, put, that was called, eight hours, 16 hours,
then we have the time. Time, that will be the post-practice sessions. So, during the daytime,
you're doing eight-hour practices, which is divided, and then two hours, two hours, two hours,
so forth, like that. And, be it when there is also time to pause the meditation on the practices,
and what you do during the post-meditation, such as, circumventing to the stupa, or walking
meditation.
And then, doing the post-stations, and supporting, helping to the monasteries,
or the retreat places, those are known as, in that order of letting our own beautiful
motivation of the joy and the devotions, and of letting that. And, during that time, also keeping
mindfulness, alertness, and consciousness. Those are always accompanying, whether you're doing
retreat, or practicing session, or whether you are in post-meditation practice state,
mindful is always so important. It is really like, kind of, the great assistant support, or the
foundation of the practices. Those are in the teaching system. So, I said yesterday, above those,
kind of, a very traditional way, kind of, a strong retreat. And, many times, those retreats are
also,
in a debate, usually, organized by one's own self. You organize yourself during retreats.
So, that means, all the food, and lodging, and a place to stay, all that, individually supported,
or have to organize that. In many cases, also some cases, and then some, kind of, big monasteries,
or those, kind of, quite big llamas, they can sponsor and organize the place to stay retreat.
And, also, in a debate, in ancient times, also, they can provide everything, food, and all that,
even those organized by the big monasteries, maybe they organize the retreat cabins,
which place to stay, and also the teaching, all that. But, with food, they have to be, kind of,
organized by themselves, through their family members. So, that's what really they do.
And, then, now, these days, many times, retreats, those who organize by monasteries, are providing
everything, which is wonderful, everything. So, that means, place to stay, and teaching, and,
as all those are organized by the many monasteries, or the many llamas, in the modern time, or this
time, which is just wonderful, that. In ancient times, that has not happened all the time. And,
there is a story that, I'm sure you maybe know already, that, and by the, this is, again, related
to the story by the Malareva and the Marvas. And, Malareva is very young, energetic, enthusiastic,
when he turned his mind toward the Dharma, really, he liked to do the practice, he liked to come
clear with all this, his deeds, what he did in his early lives. He felt really bad, all that.
So, he heard, he had advised by this great looking master to go to see Malareva. So, he came to see
Malareva, and were very enthusiastic, and very energetic, and to come. And so, he had not much
offering to, as to the Marva, to his teacher, but he came and made this offering, whatever he had
there, and then he made the statement to the Marva. He said, "I'm the come-from in the west part of
Tibet," and who did so much big obscurations, obscurations, which is referring that he did the
black maggots, and also he kind of controlled the weather, and he created the hillstones, and that
killed many villages, those crops in autumn time. So, he did those things, and he said, "I did all
those things, so I feel so bad, and now I came to you, and to help me to receive the teaching, I
like to clear with also. I offer to you my body, and spirit, and mind to you, but you please
provide
me, and teaching, and food, and place to stay, these three." So, I said, "I offer you three, my
body,
my spirit, my mind, or my heart, and you give me the teaching, place to stay, and food." And when
he
said that to Marva, and of course, Marva was very top to top, and smart, and he knows how to handle
the Marva, and so he said, "That's a wonderful statement you made. You're what your courageous
ones, what you offer me, I'm very happy to hear that, but I can do everything what you asked.
I can give you the teaching, and you have to look to your food, and place to stay, or I give you
the
place to stay, and food, and you love the teaching from somewhere else." So, that's what Marva said
,
and Marva thought, "Oh, I did not come to have the food, and place to stay, so I come into my
pot teaching, so I just have to receive teaching, and then I have to look those other things by my
southern." He thought, and he said, "Okay, then I will look the food, and place to stay, or that
other look, but you give me the teaching." Then he says, "Okay." So, that's the story. Ancient time
,
this logic of everything kind of provided everything that, and they all look in the search,
that they've started to organize anything. So, those are generally kind of like tradition,
called a linear retreat, and then those kind of smooth retreats that many of us, what we are doing
now, is smooth retreats. It's not completely strict retreats, nor is our retreat is, as I said
yesterday, there are three retreats to do, bodily retreat, speech retreat, and mind retreat. Among
that three, generally in the teachings, the best is mind retreat. The best is mind retreat.
And then, most of the time, in order to have a good mind retreat, people do rich bodily retreats,
and speech retreats. Again, I will list what those mean. I said yesterday to you, I'm sure you
already
know those. But again, bodily retreat means that retreats from all the mundane, all the activity
by physical. That is known as a bodily retreat. And verbal retreat, and also retreat from all the
verbal communications, with the mundane conversations, and all that. That was known as
verbal or the speech retreat. Mind retreat is, again, retreat from all the duality conceptions,
mundane duality conceptions. That is known as the mind retreats. Very simple way to tell.
Among that, as I said, the best is the mind retreat. And that is difficult to come immediately.
We have to work for that, with courage, commitment, joy for effort,
continuations. In order to become the mind retreat, then people or practitioners do
bodily retreat and speech retreats. But this time, what we are doing, our situation,
certain times, is created naturally as a bodily retreat. And Vicky is wonderful, really good.
When we do this bodily retreat, where everyone is talking is good for us, physically is good for us
,
and also is good for others. That is wonderful. In our Buddhist practice, in what great state of
Buddha say, fulfilling the dual purpose, that is both each other activities, helping to the others,
helping to one's own self. What is that? What is better than that? Really, very good for us,
good for the others, others, and that's what all those, this time, experts are saying to you.
So, even though it looks like trappings, all these things, but reality, according to Buddhism,
particularly practicing the Mahayana and the Vedayana, we are helping to the others,
we are helping to our self. And then Vedayana teaching, to help to our body is so important.
As I said the other day too, generally in Buddhism, that this body is so precious,
eating endowments it has. More than that, in Vedayana teaching, all transmission,
the body is hard, the Buddha, divine and other, this is divine and others.
Five aggregates are five dhyana buddhas, and five elements are five human buddhas.
Service and keeping up the good status of the one's own body is according to Vedayana teaching.
It is so precious. We are keeping up and we are honoring the divine and other according to Vedayana
teachings. And then generally Buddhism is when we are keeping up, keeping up our own health and
our self, we are keeping up our own wiggle, wiggle that we will use to cross the whole world of
samsara. Or we are keeping up the bolt, maintaining our bolt. This body is a bolt many times in
these
examples. Body is a bolt, we are keeping up this bolt in order to cross the other shore.
That's one great master, Chandideva, said, "Use the advantage of the
bolt of the human world, let's cross the other shore." That means to the enlightenment,
out of the troubles of samsara. In order to cross the other shore, we have to have this bolt,
so precious, so important. For those reasons, the gracious teacher,
Buddha Kshyatyam, when you open it, said, "Stay on the middle, not to ascetic
and that torture into the body, no too much luxuries spoiling the body. Keep in the middle,
keep in the middle path." That is the way, that is the balance of how to maintain this bolt.
So this is really, this time I am beginning, that we are doing this retreat is very soft retreat
and very gentle retreat. Retreat from the physical retreat. We are not drawing the verbal retreats,
we have all the minutes of the communication techniques. Even when we are sitting right on
our own sofa, we are talking for the side of the world. Talked. And we are watching everything,
what is going on outside. In our own state, our own country, and then beyond our own world.
We are watching, we are keeping alive in the communication, all this in tact.
Tact is not something reduced, really. We are that, that way, we are not in the retreat.
In the same way, our consumption levels, we are not also in the retreat, completely.
Maybe we will retreat for a short time, two hours or two and a half hours, we are retreats
of the mental retreat and verbal retreats. But rest, we are not completely retreat.
One retreat is the physical retreat, those are according in the teaching method, soft retreat.
But even we are not completely retreat of the verbal and mental retreat, but still keeping up
the mindfulness is so precious, really so precious, so important. It brings back us
to the home, sweet home. Or it brings back to the best of our own balance, openness,
the calmness places. So bring your mindfulness, element, joy, and appreciation.
Our this body retreat, what we're doing, body retreat, also very luxurious retreat,
luxurious retreat. I said yesterday, the real retreat those great masters did,
in accord in our standard, what we will say, it is top retreat. They don't have all the confidence.
We have every comfort, every comfort, very luxurious retreat.
And then our health, in most cases, by the blessings, we are also quite good. So therefore,
very grateful, very happy, enjoy, really use the time. We've been spending so much time
and outside the world. World is so long time. I mean, of course, it depends with our
age, but maybe we spend almost 30 percent of our life spending outside and doing all the different
things. But this time, we can't let them over a different way to cultivate something good in
a way and call it is good opportunity, good opportunity. We're developing something good.
And that aspect of our life and dimension and progress, which is really wonderful. So therefore,
with joy and happy, activating more and more each other, thinking of all living beings,
and really, we sincerely, may all living beings have happiness and cause of happiness.
May they all be, every living being, free from suffering and cause of suffering.
May they all have that great joy, happiness, peace, never separated from that.
And may everyone has great opening and balance, beautiful understandings and thoughtful. May
every living may have that. Really, with those sincerely and heart and mind and a relaxing,
expanded mind, open heart, open mind, let it go far as far as horizons, the blue sky,
merging with that. That's what the greatest teacher, Brother Shaktamuni and Gurbam Masambha said.
If we do that, we're really taking the beautiful meaning of life. Same time, we benefit. We're
sending great, great energy, vibrations, vibrations. Maybe it's not detected by the
satellite or any of that, but really, we're sending some beautiful energy throughout the world.
And beyond all the six depths. And that is, which is wonderful. Those are, the Buddhas teach
in on the meaning of life. We're taking, fulfilling the very purpose of these British lives.
British lives. And then also same time, all that, bring more joy, more appreciation,
and more bond together. Kindness, compared thought. Thought. And also this all is like magic.
It's a dream. What's happening in all these situations? Is it also really like a dream?
Never expected like this. I don't enable it. Now, believe it or not, it's happening.
It's calm. It's just a boom like this. That, but it's thanks for the, one thing is that we can
think
for things, this is not going to stay forever like this. It's going to go away. This lay in the way
,
thunderstorms, it go away. But however, all this is like a dream and changing.
That's what the great teacher, Buddha Shakyabhan often said. This is a dream. Life is a dream.
Past is a dream, present is a dream, and future will be a dream. Everything. And what we are now,
or how old we are, or what we are. All the past memories, everything is only in our memories.
Only many of those, even not in the memories, are gone. It's like a dream. Oh, it's really.
And now it usually can't happen in all these things. The reality is, we are on the dream
moves. In the future, upcoming events, all that, is also really a dream.
That didn't mean it's not kind of going to have any effect. The dream has effect. It is going to
function exactly what we think, what we like to do. It's nothing changed on that reality. But
it's reality, no? It's nothing changed to the effect level of what things happen.
That is how it is. This is not mystery or the mythological or the story or something.
This is true evidence. Surely it is without. So therefore, ever raising the truth as is truth.
That is great knowledge. Cover up is not knowledge. This is the whole thing. We are fooling
ourselves. That's not going to do anything. Sooner or later, it will come out. Therefore,
truth is truth good. For that reason, what Shakyamuni said, truth is supreme.
There's nothing else than supreme than the truth. So therefore, to knowing those things really good
,
very good. But at the same time, this time, increasing our all, this beautiful motivation
and the joy and appreciation, use all the tools that what the great master Buddha and all the
linear masters showed us, put those to the active status as much as we can. And then it will
benefit
to my son or to our own son. It will benefit to the others. And that is really beautiful.
It's so beautiful, so special, even though it is again, same thing as a dream, but it's going to
benefit. It's going to help to all the dream beings. We all dream beings, it will help to everyone.
So that is what really what things are. So now with that thought, I'm going to go now
over this one. I'm going to highlight these points. Now in the teachings said what? I said here,
here,
as I said, the other day, I listed those are, I'm going to read this, read and I'm sure you have
this,
this, this. Thank you. The trust that the three jubals are imperiable souls of rathoms.
So imperiable. Those are in the Buddha teaching said, they're permeable when we practice,
and the blessings of Buddhas are imperiable. True failures, or true undecipherable,
or that will never going to cheat us, or that will trick us. Post is, for example, our practice.
Once we take the rafuk in the Buddha dharmasana, begin to practice, that never going to cheat us,
that never going to disappoint us, it will bring full benefit, resolve to ourself.
What are those? As he said so many times, you know, by practicing the dharmasana,
by practicing and cultivating the loving kind of the complete joy and peace, happiness, relaxing
or open the state of the mind, or relaxing on the 18th state of mind, it will bring what? More
openness, more westerns, more skillful meanings, more common senses. It will relax our body,
it will relax our channels, it will relax our mind. When that relaxes, it will balance
every element of the part of the body. It will bring longevity, it will remove the obstacles,
it will remove the obscurations, it will increase all the vitality and many truths.
Surely it really will come. This is not deceiving statement. It never let us fall down or fell down
,
fell down and deseed it. So therefore, it is practicing dharma, cultivating our inner
beautiful qualities, qualities that never let us down. So therefore, it is invalid, following
the instructions of the teachings. Exhilar, as he said. When I say the teaching, maybe think,
or maybe because he is a Buddhist, therefore he is talking. No, I'm not talking about I'm Buddhist,
because what is teaching? Teaching is nothing but about loving kindness, compassion,
truth and honesty, respect and appreciation. Respect and appreciation to one's own self,
respect and appreciation to all the beings. What else is wrong? There is nothing wrong.
That's the teaching. Buddha pointed out exactly truth, exactly visual.
Buddha did not created anything. He himself said, "I just showed where things are,
where things are. That's just where things are." So if we follow that, there is no notice
appointment,
really will come. And then also, blessings of the Buddhas are known as imperigable or
unmistakable. And the teaching said, there is so many practices of witness, one after another,
that when you have the devotion impaired, when you practice and meditate, Buddhas are right there,
blessings are right there. That I can only tell by the stories. There is a story that during the
Buddha's time, Buddhas were one of the one of the devoted and also patrons to the Buddha, known as
another Hindu in Sanskrit. And in the Tibetan it is translated as Gommee sevi. He is one young
daughter, or he is one daughter, maybe not young, one of the daughters, married with a very wealthy
family in the Southern Indians. And she was very much connected to the Buddha, Buddha and Dhamma
and Sangha. She always missed the Buddha, really Buddha, when he went married for far.
So in the teaching said that. And one time, and then her friend is told, "Why you don't
pray in a cold Buddha, the Buddha will come." And she told, that could be, that could be, I should
do.
And he went on the roof, dropped the roof, the house, she prayed with the essence.
And one day he said, "We are Jamaican, we died in our prayer booklet sometimes."
And, "You are the protector of all the living beings."
And one would also remove the obstacles of the demonic forces.
And you know everything. Therefore, please come to him. And she joined with that praise.
With the essence on the roof, and Buddha came accordingly. Buddha came with the letters.
The center of the roof as like, as the swans in the teaching said, "Swans and swans will come to
the
bone in the same way. Buddha and the disciples of Ahabas are descended on the roof, roof as swans."
Then same as the other ones too. When he agreed again, this is another story.
And great people came in that Buddhist. In that Buddhist, he was fascinated because he saw and
many Ahabas are showing the extraordinary realization of power in walking in the skies.
And far distance he saw that. And he asked to his minister because he was on the roof of the palace
.
He asked, "Who there are the strangely looking birds? Who there?"
His minister said, "Oh great king, this is not the strange birds. It is the disciple of the Buddha,
Chakraman. He was very inspired by this Buddha. They are the disciple of Buddha. Buddha said, "Yes,
they are the disciple of Buddha. How can I meet him?" He said, "Again, if you call him, he will
come."
And then again he did prayers. And Buddha came. As I said the other day, when you read
enlightenment,
Buddha's activity is pervasive on the time and it's instantaneous. And as also I use the examples,
say the tides of ocean can change. Can change. But the timing of the Buddha for the reward is
never going to change. Change. That is like accurate or punctuated. Ocean tide, suppose,
is always on the tide. High tide, low tide or whatever it is. But that can be mixed up sometimes.
Buddha's timing, like enlightened beings, because they are loving kindness and compassion for all
the living beings. Their realization and their wisdom has no doubt as according to the teachings.
Welcome. Then I said quite a few stories. When you have the devotion, confidence,
trusty or infallible confidence, the story of the Kung Kong being, how he able to
see the Joe Ramboches, Buddha Chaturmani, and talk to him and come to him as he invited.
And we have the trust, confidence, trust, or devotions, that old ladies,
dog teeth become relaxed and she got big realizations. Those are the few stories.
But every old that really witnessed by so many practitioners, but regularly in the 16th,
this in the 19th century, in the 60s, so many Tibetans went on the big tragedy. You all know,
I'm not going to talk about details. So many have got so much troubles one after another.
But those people who are able to come out of Tibet in India, every ruffled are talking each
other stories about how they are able to come. It's miraculous. It's unbelievable. One after
another.
Really, it's nothing but it's a blessing. Because they have the trust, they have the confidence,
they practice it. Even they didn't have the high realizations, but their confidence
and the connection is loyal. It's not lingering. They keep life, even the hardest, difficult time.
Time, their spirit is shining and glowing. Those are the really evidence of that it's not going to
fail, don't ask. This is not that. And then also we see many of those our loved ones and our great
masters entering the Mahabharic nirvana, which is the honor of the God, but they are passing.
The moment of death, they are calm and fierce, happy and relaxed. In a way, it looks like they're
looking forward. I'm not kidding. Those all are the sign and result of the practice of the dharma.
That shows what they think, thought and did practices during their lifetime. It is rewarding,
rewarding. This is not going to end to their last moment of death.
They call on the teaching, that is the beginning of the bright sunshine of the futures.
Futures begins from there, really, that. What is the teaching say? The good practices,
life will be big, that life is beginning to jog. Jog of that practice at that time, that will be
joy. But the moment of death, they will be happy and peaceful in a moment of death. And after the
death, even more free and more, and next birth will be more, more happy and joyful, peaceful,
and more realization, more confidence. Those are really in the teaching said that.
Teaching said, and we've something, what is our self? This is, so this is my great kind of story
of this, this, and then tomorrow I'm going to go to the next line. I've been talking this,
this one, and I'm not sure, maybe you're thinking, talking all this kind of same thing again, again
.
But I'm trying to point, highlight and discover kind of a little bit, the meaning of it,
so that we can all kind of activate it, our some real realization, the teaching of the Buddha.
Buddha, and the Buddha, Buddha's teaching is really like as deep as ocean in the teaching said,
because there's just so many beautiful things to discover, our own qualities, our nature,
and the beautiful things. So that's what we're trying to go as much as we can do in the following
worlds, or light worlds, wisdom worlds of the great lineage masters. That's what we're doing.
And so again, thank you very much for participating, and listening here. Thank you very much.
Thank you, thank you. Again we do short meditation.